## Cooperation

by Emma Hi'ilani Thain


Cooperation, in the context of the climate crisis, is understood within
the game theoretic framework. Climate change is largely understood as a
"collective action problem" or "collective risk social dilemma"
(hurlstone, et. al, 2016). A **collective action problem** is a
situation in which social welfare is at odds with individual
self-interest. In order to achieve a socially optimal outcome, all
individuals must **cooperate** to solve the collective issue, but if
some participants don't cooperate, the costs and benefits are unevenly
distributed. Because there is always an incentive to act against the
collective interest, collective action problems often end with a
non-adaptive outcome for most or all participants. The famous example of
this is the "prisoner's dilemma," in which two prisoners each benefit
from outing the other. The most individually optimal choice for each is
least optimal for the other, but the tendency is for each to choose the
option that is least optimal for the other, which ends up being least
optimal for both, while the socially optimal solution would have been
okay for all. **Cooperation** is what is necessary for players to
achieve the *socially* optimal outcome; it is when two or more
individuals or groups work together to achieve a mutual goal in a way
that [maximizes reward]{.underline} and [minimizes cost]{.underline} for
[all]{.underline} participants.

Climate change fits the format of a collective action problem, and
indeed has been called "the ultimate global commons problem" because in
the short-term, countries, businesses, and individuals benefit from
continuing to live the same way that they currently do, which means
emitting harmful gasses into the atmosphere and other unsustainable
behaviors. A healthy climate is a global public good, making fossil fuel
pollution a "tragedy of the commons" problem (hurlstone, et. al, 2016).
"Tragedy of the commons" refers to a type of collective action problem
in which there is a common good, such as a population of fish, or in
this case, a temperate climate. The common good should be dealt with in
a way that allows everyone to benefit from it, but each individual
involved would benefit from taking *more* than their fair share. In the
case of climate change, it's more of a "common bad," in which
individuals must limit greenhouse gas emissions in order to preserve a
temperate climate, but each is motivated to continue to emit because of
economic incentives and a general convenience. However, our current
behavior, if continued, will be catastrophic to the existence of our
species and most other life forms on earth (Tingley & Tomz, 2014). If
only some people or countries cooperate by taking action against climate
change and changing their behavior, the situation functions negatively
in one of two ways: either not enough people take action, rendering the
actions of those who do take action as irrelevant, or enough people take
action but some people, who did not cooperate but acted as "free
riders," receive the benefits of climate mitigation without incurring
the costs. Both of these potential outcomes are theoretically deterrents
for action.

**When it comes to the climate crisis, "cooperation" is individuals,
companies, institutions, and governments making extreme changes in
policy and behavior to stop greenhouse gas emissions.**

The vast majority of research on cooperation and climate change has been
done in the context of cooperative "games." These studies model
varieties of game theoretic problems in a controlled setting, hoping to
gain insight into the details of cooperation by mimicking real-world
scenarios. These games generally feature either a common resource or a
threshold. Common resource games are modeled after the "tragedy of the
commons" problem, and require players to responsibly manage a common
good. Threshold problems require players, over the course of some number
of rounds, to contribute tokens, usually money, to a group account, with
the intention of reaching a certain threshold. In each scenario, tension
is created between individual interest and the socially optimal
behavior, and different conditions are introduced to gauge if and why
players cooperate.

The current work on cooperation and climate change originates both in
psychological and economic literature, where cooperative games are often
assessed, in political science, climate science, and sociology. The
information in this chapter was drawn from many review papers, and thus
represents some of these different fields. Most of these studies were
done in the U.S., but some studies were done in a European or Chinese
context.

A review of the literature reveals the following as significant factors
that determine willingness to cooperate in collective action social
dilemmas.

### COMMUNICATION

An extremely reliable finding in the context of cooperative games is the
benefit of communication between players (Sturm, et. al, 2019),
(hurlstone, et. al, 2016). A study by Tavoni, et. al, demonstrates a
poignant example. In a 10-round cooperative game, groups were supposed
to collaborate to achieve a monetary contribution threshold. As a
manipulation, participants were allowed to make non-binding pledges at
the ends of rounds 3 and 7. These pledges declared their intent to give
a certain amount of funds toward the collective goal and were shown to
each consecutive player as they made their choices for the next round.
In this open communication condition, 30% more groups reached the
threshold than in the non-communicative condition. In another condition
with heterogeneous participant resources, cooperation went up by 40%
after communication was introduced (2011). This study is just one
example of this highly replicable finding. Another example is
illustrated by Brick, Visser, and Van der Hoven, who find that, on
average, communication increases cooperation within a collective action
dilemma. In their study, two dominant contribution norms emerge once
communication is introduced: perfect cooperation and free-riding. With
the ability to discuss contribution strategies, some participants
consistently choose the socially optimal contribution. Alternatively,
other participants, supposedly due to their confidence that other
members of the group are handling the situation, begin to contribute
less or not at all. Because of the high prevalence of free riding
(26%-46% depending on personal cost of contribution), the authors
underline the importance of **sanctions** for punishing non-cooperative
players. Sanctions will be discussed further in a section below.
Regardless, communication still significantly improved cooperation as a
whole, with a 32% increase in the number of groups able to meet the
necessary threshold compared with the non-communication condition
(Brick, Visser, & Van der Hoven, 2015). Clearly, communication between
participants is an essential piece of increasing cooperation. It's
hypothesized that communication increases other participants' trust in
their peers' level of cooperation, subsequently improving their own
willingness to act cooperatively (hurlstone, et. al, 2016). However, the
climate crisis necessitates action from *millions* of people. It's not
feasible to imagine communication between everyone; it will likely be
necessary to delineate groups that can actualize the benefit of
communication. These groups may exist on a national level, such as
countries agreeing on emission cuts, or on an individual level, such as
members of a community agreeing to switch to solar power.

### SOCIAL TRUST

One of the most critical factors for cooperation in cooperation games is
**social trust**. Social trust, broadly defined, is one's assurance of
other people in your society's integrity and reliability, especially in
regards to a collective interest such as safety. In the context of
cooperation games, social trust is also referred to by the term
"cooperation beliefs," which is the more specific confidence that other
players will engage in "cooperative" or mutually beneficial behavior in
a collective action problem (Lübke, 2021). In the prisoner's dilemma,
this looks like the trust that the other prisoner will not betray you.
For the climate crisis, this looks like the confidence that other people
and/or countries will also engage in mitigation behaviors like cutting
carbon emissions. In game theoretic terms, social trust posits that
others will not act as "free riders."

High cooperation beliefs increase the likelihood of cooperative behavior
(Lübke, 2021). This seems straightforward given the two risks of acting
cooperatively that were outlined in the introduction to cooperation,
**free riding** or **ineffective action** due to a lack of total
cooperation. If there is assurance that others will cooperate, it is
safer and more effective to cooperate.

### PLURALISTIC IGNORANCE

Pluralistic ignorance is a situation in which a person thinks that their
privately held beliefs are contrary to the majority's beliefs, when in
actuality the majority also holds the same beliefs. The majority is
individually afraid to openly oppose a norm because it appears that
everyone else agrees with it, so the widely unsupported norm continues.
Knowing what we know about communication and social trust, pluralistic
ignorance can pose a serious obstacle to cooperation.

In their research, Geiger and Swim found a powerful expression of this
phenomenon in a US university sample. In two studies, it was found that
inaccurate perceptions of peers' lack of concern for climate change
caused concerned individuals to self-silence at a higher rate than those
who perceived that their peers were also worried about climate. Those
who thought that their peers cared about climate change were more
willing to discuss it (Geiger & Swim, 2016). Pluralistic ignorance can
be a hindrance to climate discussion and action, and reinforces norms of
silence and the appearance of apathy. This poignant example once again
highlights the importance of communication in a social dilemma, through
which people can begin to accurately gauge their peers' desire to
cooperate.

In Lübke's analysis of data in the EU, they found that cooperation
beliefs in Europe are an underestimate of actual cooperation. On
average, cooperation beliefs reflected the impression that fellow
citizens contributed *less* to pro-environmental behaviors than they did
in reality. This reveals what Lübke calls a "trust gap." Generally,
people underestimate how much their peers or co-citizens are doing to
help mitigate energy use, based on self-report data of people's
behaviors. The participants in Lübke's study are also displaying
pluralistic ignorance, except in this case, the "privately held belief"
also manifests in energy-saving behavior. The study does find that
**those with higher cooperation beliefs, which corresponds to a more
accurate perception of citizens' actual energy-saving behavior, are more
likely to engage in self-reported energy-saving behavior**. However, on
average, they find that people's energy-saving behavior supersedes their
expectations about others' cooperative action (Lübke, 2021).

### PERCEPTION OF RISK

Simply put, perception of risk is the degree to which someone believes
that a problem is serious enough that they should respond. Cooperation
studies show that perception of risk is an important factor for
participant contribution. Keeping in mind the abundance of
misinformation and ambiguity that surrounds the climate crisis, this
body of work signals the need to broadly clarify and communicate the
real risk that the climate crisis poses to humanity.

In Milinski et. al's seminal 2008 paper, they set out to test the
influence of risk perception on cooperation levels in a threshold-style
collective action game. In this study, they created three risk
conditions. Participants faced either a 10%, 50%, or 90% risk of
catastrophe if they failed to reach the threshold goal by the end of the
game. The results indicated that **the higher the perception of risk,
the better**. Under the lowest risk condition, *no* groups reached the
threshold for catastrophe evasion. In the moderate risk condition, only
10% of groups reached the threshold. Finally, in the highest risk
condition, 50% of groups reached the threshold and the rest came close
(Milinski, et. al, 2008). The results of this study seem to indicate
that it's critical to make the extremity of climate risk as salient as
possible, and that any downplaying can severely impact the vitality of
the public's response.

However, cooperation games are only a tool for predicting cooperation in
the real world. It's often a concern that communicating the real danger
of the climate crisis will cause people to draw away from the issue
altogether because the reality is too overwhelming to process. It's
possible that this study found extreme risk to facilitate cooperation
because of three important considerations.

1)  The participants in the study have very little ambiguity that it is
    their **responsibility** to respond to the risk, as they are
    participants in the study and it is literally their job to
    contribute to the solution.

2)  The participants in this study have no ambiguity about **which
    action to take and whether that action will work.** These have
    been outlined by the nature of the study. They only need to
    contribute to the threshold and they will avoid catastrophe.

3)  The participants are not facing a genuine risk. They are taking part
    in a *study*, which holds less stake, by orders of magnitude, than
    the real future of themselves, their species, and the planet.

Each of these three factors looks very different in our real collective
action dilemma. It can be very unclear to any given individual or
country that resolving the climate crisis is their responsibility or
that there is an action that they can actually take that will actually
have an effect on the issue. Additionally, it should be expected that
emotional stress related to the climate crisis could be very severe.
These factors should be taken into account when attempting to apply the
results of this study to the real world. Communicating intense risk is
likely only beneficial for cooperation if there is a somewhat clear and
effective path to helping --- otherwise it may only lead to panic.

### EFFICACY BELIEFS

**Efficacy belief** is the assurance that individual and collective
actions will actually be effective in solving the problem it's intended
to solve. Research shows that efficacy beliefs are a big factor in
whether people actually engage in helpful behaviors (L. Steg, 2023).

### SOCIAL NORMS

Social norms are mechanisms that have a powerful role to play in the
climate crisis. Social norms reinforce the unhelpful behavior that we
now engage in, but they can also be a tool for creating new and
sustainable behaviors. Social norms must be framed in a way that
highlights helpful norms, and Constantino's review paper reports on
several studies that show this effect (Constantino, et. al, 2022). In a
cooperation study done in China, participants were much more likely to
contribute to mitigation when they were led to believe that two-thirds,
rather than one-third, of other participants were doing the same (Sturm,
et. al, 2019). This is just one example of this highly reliable finding.
However, most of the research on social norms as it relates to the issue
at hand is related to environmentally-friendly behavior, not mitigation
behavior.

Many of our norms do not align with mitigation practices. Because of
this, it's most helpful to engage in **social tipping** interventions.
Social tipping interventions are interventions that "seed" new norms by
focusing on a subset of the population. As the new behavior spreads, it
can reach a **critical mass**, at which point rapid societal change
happens (Constantino, et. al, 2022).

### REPUTATION

Research on cooperation games shows that social perception has a
beneficial influence on cooperation. Essentially, when there is the
potential that others will know about a player's contributory action,
the player is more likely to contribute more. This effect was found
through the manipulation of a multiple-round threshold game, in which
investments in the climate account were made public during \'odd\'
rounds and made anonymous during \'even\' rounds. During the public
rounds, players had an incentive to cooperate because they could improve
their reputation. However, there was another incentive, the "reciprocity
game." This game occurred after the public round, and gave players the
opportunity to give tokens to another player. Creating a good reputation
by contributing in the game could incur the reward of a gift. During the
anonymous rounds, the incentive to cooperate and the disincentive to
free ride were eliminated, as reputation no longer played a role in
gaining benefits in the indirect reciprocity game. Contributions were
significantly higher in the public rounds than the anonymous rounds
(hurlstone, et. al, 2016).

Reputation, as a mechanism for increasing cooperation towards climate
mitigation, is a relatively easy tool to leverage, and has the added
bonus of contributing towards a positive behavioral norm.

### STRONG LEADERS

There is one study that suggests that the presence of strong *ethical*
leaders may be integral to successful cooperation. This study by
Sadowski, et al. played out a common good social dilemma among college
students (2015). Experimenters, monitoring online chats between groups,
found that there was a minority of reliably ethical students who shaped
the decisions of the whole and ultimately the outcome of the game. The
authors claim this as the study's important finding, but some aspects of
the results suggest that the participants were not taking the experiment
at all seriously, which taints the integrity of the study's findings.
However, the idea that an influential few are integral to the behavior
of the whole is consistent with findings in social psychology on early
movers.

### INCOME AND RISK DISPARITY

Income and risk inequalities within a game decrease cooperation. Yet
participant income heterogeneity mirrors the demographics of the real
world, suggesting that one of the barriers to cooperation and climate
action is income and risk inequality. It appears that this occurs
because low-resource/high-risk participants are less able to contribute,
and high-income/low-risk participants are less willing. In a study by
Calzolari, et. al, the real-world climate cost inequality was
represented by a poor and a rich condition. On average, the rich group
emitted less than the poor group did, although by small margins
(averaging 6-15%). This detail is largely irrelevant in the more complex
context of the real world, in which it is well known that socioeconomic
status is correlated with higher emissions. In the tightly controlled
game environment, rich participants were more able to contribute, and
thus contributed more. However, across 3 studies of this type, a
significant correlation between groups who successfully cooperated and
groups where the rich participants emitted less was only found in one
(Calzori, et. al, 2018).

Hurlstone, et. al, report a variation of this finding, in which rich
participants only compensated for poor participants when all
participants faced the same level of risk. In the four-condition study,
when all groups had the same wealth and faced the same level of risk,
88% reached the game's necessary threshold. When there was unequal
wealth but equal risk, 63% reached the threshold, when there was wealth
inequality but the rich were at higher risk, 75% reached it, but when
there was wealth inequality and the poor were at risk, only 13% of
groups reached the threshold, as the rich participants no longer had an
incentive to help (hurlstone, et. al, 2016). The findings demonstrate
that participants only consistently cooperate when they face risk
themselves and have the capacity to avoid that risk. In the real world,
lower-income groups are at higher risk, even though they are generally
much lower emitters. The challenge that inequality poses to cooperation
and successful mitigation must be solved.

### SANCTIONS

The literature shows that sanctions reliably increase cooperation,
especially deterring free riding when others are cooperating (Hurlstone,
et. al 2017). Sanctions are punishments that players can impose when
other parties are not cooperating. A "tit for tat" sanction is when one
party's deflection from cooperation is met with the same behavior as
punishment. In common good games, this behavior is not helpful overall
because it ends up exacerbating harm for all. It's best when the
cooperative party/ies can sanction the non-cooperative party in another
way. Instead, disadvantages should be placed on the non-cooperative
player. In global climate politics, this looks like trade sanctions or
tariffs. According to Hurlstone, et. al, in order for these imposed
punishments to work, they must be "severe and credible" (hurlstone, et.
al, 2016). If the threat of sanctions is strong and well-believed, the
sanctions themselves may never have to be put into action.

### TIMEFRAME

Global warming is a massive crisis unlike humans have ever seen, which
makes it difficult enough to conceptualize, but it also exists on a long
and somewhat ambiguous time scale. Many individuals who take actions now
do so to the benefit of generations beyond themselves; older generations
will not live to see the most harmful effects of their emissions.
Whether or not those alive now will see the harsher effects of global
warming, it\'s still psychologically difficult to choose a lesser
benefit in the present in order to receive a greater gain in the future.
This is a concept called **time discounting**, a phenomenon often
observed in economics, in which rewards in the future are
psychologically treated as less valuable than in the present. This
phenomenon is a concern because climate action in the present is meant
to affect people in future generations.

The climate crisis's extended timeframe poses a problem for mitigation.
In a threshold cooperative game study on time discounting, players were
less likely to cooperate the more distance there was between the present
and their rewards. A standard cooperative game was posed in which there
were three conditions: a short delay, long delay, and intergenerational
delay condition. Participants were given, as usual, operating funds and
an endowment. Their operating funds were used to play the game, and they
were allowed to keep the leftovers that they didn't use during the game.
If they didn't reach the game's necessary threshold, there was a 90%
chance that they would lose their endowment. They either received the
endowment one day later, a week later, or it was invested into a
reforestation project to benefit future generations. In the short delay
condition, 70% of groups met the threshold, in the long-delay condition,
only 36% met the threshold, and in the intergenerational condition, no
one met the threshold (hurlstone, et. al, 2016). This suggests that
highlighting the intergenerational responsibility of climate mitigation
may not be an effective strategy. However, the study may have found a
different effect if other factors were included or made salient, such as
the individual human identity of members of future generations, or the
potential that a sufferer of climate change could be a descendant.
Additionally, the study had a pretty simple design that may not have
truly communicated to the participants the significance of their
contributions.

Fossil fuels will remain in the atmosphere for a very, very long time.
This persistence is another heavy factor of the climate issue ---
cooperative behavior must happen in the context of persisting effects.
However, the continuation of pollution may make cooperation less
appealing or less effective over time. Because of this, Calzolari,
Casari, and Ghidoni created a cooperative game in which participants
were individually incentivized to produce emissions while it was
simultaneously socially optimal to stay below a very low average level
of emissions. The pollution costs of each round varied in different
pollution persistence conditions. In the **least persistent round**, all
of the effects of emissions were suffered within the one round, and then
dissipated before the next round. In the **intermediate condition**,
emissions persisted but decreased by half in each round. In the **most
persistent condition**, all emissions persisted fully, cumulating until
the end of the game. **Participants' rates of emissions reflected the
pollution persistence of each condition**. The no-consequence condition
corresponded with the highest emission rates, likely because there
wasn't much of an incentive to cut emissions. In the intermediate
persistence and full persistence conditions, the rates of emissions were
lower than the no-persistence condition, but statistically insignificant
from one another. This finding is somewhat encouraging, as the real
world has a "persistent condition." In the fully persistent condition,
and *only* the fully persistent condition, 2% of groups were able to
maintain the socially optimal level of emissions, but **the vast
majority of groups went well above the socially optimal level**. The
trend of average individual emissions in all groups went up over time
(Calzolari, Casari, & Ghidoni, 2018). **The persistence of pollution
increased initial cooperation levels compared with the other condition,
but as pollution accumulated/persisted throughout rounds, cooperation
decreased.** The authors suggest that this finding demonstrates the need
to take extreme measures before cumulative effects increase to
discouraging levels. It's important to note that this cooperation game
started with an initial pollution level of 0, which does not reflect the
level of carbon pollution that already exists in the real world.

### CONCLUSION

Throughout this chapter, it has been shown how cooperation is generally
studied through cooperation games. However, it's important to question
whether these games really reflect how people will respond to the
climate crisis. Do the results shown in these cooperative scenarios
apply to the much, much broader context of the climate crisis? One of
the ways that this has been addressed in the literature is through a
paper by Claessens, et. al. This paper is a correlational study that
looks at a so-called "cooperative phenotype," but essentially tracks
whether people's tendency to cooperate in cooperative games is
correlated with their self-reported frequency of environmental
behaviors. There is in fact a correlation, which suggests that the
people who are cooperating in cooperative games are actually
representing people who are cooperating in real-world scenarios of the
same character. This is a weak correlational study but is also one of
the only things that speaks to this question (Claessens, et. al, 2022).

Another powerful question as to the integrity of cooperative games as a
representation of the real-world collective action problem comes from a
survey report by Tingley and Tomz. Although a lot of the discussion
around the climate crisis and climate policy has regarded it as a
collective action problem in which free riding is an issue, there is
evidence to believe that the world's citizens don't see the issue that
way at all (Tingley & Tomz, 2014).

In a survey report of the US and 12 European countries, Tingley and Tomz
found that **most people (an average of 79% across countries) want
unconditional climate policy**. In a survey of 16 developing countries,
the average was even higher, 86%. This means that, regardless of how
other countries behave, citizens believe that their country should
continue to engage in mitigation action. This unconditionally
cooperative attitude desires to mitigate climate change regardless of
whether other countries are participating in climate action, with even
some proportion thinking that their country should compensate when other
countries are under-mitigating (Tingley & Tomz, 2014). In the context of
a game theoretic framework, this kind of thinking and behavior is
antithetical. However, not everyone is looking at the climate crisis
like an economist, in terms of value gained and lost. It's possible that
citizens, in general, are approaching the crisis out of genuine concern
from a value-driven standpoint, in which the point of fixing the climate
crisis is not to get the most economic gain, but rather to save our
species from immense pain, inequity, and even extinction.

### BIBLIOGRAPHY

Alló, Maria, and Maria L. Loureiro. "The Role of Social Norms on
Preferences towards Climate Change Policies: A Meta-Analysis." *Energy
Policy*, vol. 73, 2014, pp. 563--574,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2014.04.042.

Brick, Kerri, et al. "Cooperation and Climate Change: Can
Communication Facilitate the Provision of Public Goods in
Heterogeneous Settings?" *Environmental and Resource Economics*, vol.
64, no. 3, 2015, pp. 421--443,
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10640-015-9879-z.

Calzolari, Giacomo, and Marco Casari. "Carbon Is Forever: A Climate
Change Experiment on Cooperation." *SSRN Electronic Journal*, 2016,
https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2775276.

Constantino, Sara M., et al. "Scaling up Change: A Critical Review and
Practical Guide to Harnessing Social Norms for Climate Action."
*Psychological Science in the Public Interest*, vol. 23, no. 2, 2022,
pp. 50--97, https://doi.org/10.1177/15291006221105279.

Doherty, Kathryn L., and Thomas N. Webler. "Social Norms and Efficacy
Beliefs Drive the Alarmed Segment's Public-Sphere Climate Actions."
*Nature Climate Change*, vol. 6, no. 9, 2016, pp. 879--884,
https://doi.org/10.1038/nclimate3025.

Farjam, Mike, et al. "Does Risk Communication Really Decrease
Cooperation in Climate Change Mitigation?" *Climatic Change*, vol.
149, no. 2, 2018, pp. 147--158,
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-018-2228-9.

Geiger, Nathaniel, and Janet K. Swim. "Climate of Silence: Pluralistic
Ignorance as a Barrier to Climate Change Discussion." *Journal of
Environmental Psychology*, vol. 47, 2016, pp. 79--90,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jenvp.2016.05.002.

Hurlstone, Mark J., et al. "Cooperation Studies of Catastrophe
Avoidance: Implications for Climate Negotiations." *Climatic Change*,
vol. 140, no. 2, 2016, pp. 119--133,
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-016-1838-3.

Irwin, Timothy. "Implications for Climate-Change Policy of Research on
Cooperation in Social Dilemmas." *Policy Research Working Papers*,
2009, https://doi.org/10.1596/1813-9450-5006.

Kelly, Daniel, et al. "Cooperative Phenotype Predicts Climate Change
Belief and Pro-Environmental Behaviour." *Nature*, vol. 12, 26 July
2022, https://doi.org/10.31234/osf.io/qu7v4.

Latkin, Carl, et al. "The Relationship between Social Norms,
Avoidance, Future Orientation, and Willingness to Engage in Climate
Change Advocacy Communications." *International Journal of
Environmental Research and Public Health*, vol. 18, no. 24, 2021, p.
13037, https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph182413037.

Lübke, Christiane. "The Climate Change Dilemma: How Cooperation
Beliefs Influence Energy Conservation Behavior." *Sustainability*,
vol. 13, no. 10, 2021, https://doi.org/10.3390/su13105575.

McEvoy, David M., and Todd L. Cherry. "The Prospects for Paris:
Behavioral Insights into Unconditional Cooperation on Climate Change."
*Palgrave Communications*, vol. 2, no. 1, 2016,
https://doi.org/10.1057/palcomms.2016.56.

Milinski, M., Sommerfeld, R. D., Krambeck, H.-J., Reed, F. A., &
Marotzke, J. (2008). The collective-risk social dilemma and the
prevention of simulated dangerous climate change. *PNAS*, *105*(7),
2291-2294. https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.0709546105

Sadowski, Jathan, et al. "Intergroup Cooperation in Common Pool
Resource Dilemmas." *Science and Engineering Ethics*, vol. 21, no. 5,
2014, pp. 1197--1215, https://doi.org/10.1007/s11948-014-9575-3.

Steg, Linda. "Psychology of Climate Change." *Annual Review of
Psychology*, vol. 74, no. 1, 2023, pp. 391--421,
https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-psych-032720-042905.

Sturm, Bodo, et al. "Conditional Cooperation in Case of a Global
Public Good -- Experimental Evidence from Climate Change Mitigation in
Beijing." *China Economic Review*, vol. 56, 2019, p. 101308,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chieco.2019.101308.

Tingley, Dustin, and Michael Tomz. "Conditional Cooperation and
Climate Change." *Comparative Political Studies*, vol. 47, no. 3,
2013, pp. 344--368, https://doi.org/10.1177/0010414013509571.

Zelenski, John M., et al. "Cooperation Is in Our Nature: Nature
Exposure May Promote Cooperative and Environmentally Sustainable
Behavior." *Journal of Environmental Psychology*, vol. 42, 2015, pp.
24--31, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jenvp.2015.01.005.
